# Interactive Data Analysis with Shiny

Materials for the GESIS workshop “Interactive Data Analysis with Shiny”,
July 23-26, 2024

For the Quarto document of the workshop, click
[here](https://paulcbauer.github.io/shiny_workshop/).

Lecturers: - [Paul C. Bauer](https://paulcbauer.github.io/) - [Jonas
Lieth](https://www.gesis.org/institut/ueber-uns/mitarbeitendenverzeichnis/person/Jonas.Lieth)

## Workshop description

The workshop Interactive Data Analysis with Shiny introduces
participants to the basics of creating interactive apps with Shiny in R.
Interactive data applications are becoming increasingly popular in
academia, media, and companies to visualize, manage, and analyze data.
Shiny is a tool for creating such (web) applications using R code. It
allows you to create interactive data apps with no knowledge of HTML,
CSS, or JavaScript. The utilization of interactive applications expands
the forms of use of existing data sets and enables users to freely
explore the data. The course offers an introduction to reactive
programming and the R Shiny package, outlines a workflow for project
management, discusses ways of offline and online hosting of Shiny apps,
and gives you the opportunity to start your own interactive data
analysis project.

## Structure of the workshop

The best way to learn R’s versatile capabilities is to try things out
and apply the presented concepts. Therefore, we will have a mixture of
lectures and hands-on exercises. More specifically, each topic will be
introduced in a lecture by the instructors. Participants will then
receive a set of exercises on each topic. The solutions of the exercises
will be discussed before the start of the next lecture part.

## Target group

Participants will find the course useful if:

-   they want to use R to build interactive web applications to analyze
    and visualize their data.

## Goal

By the end of the course participants will:

-   understand the basics of reactive programming for interactive data
    analysis and visualization

-   know what the structure of a Shiny application looks like

-   be comfortable to use R Shiny to build their own interactive
    applications

-   have learned about ways to launch and disseminate their Shiny app

-   will have built their first own Shiny app

## Requirements

Good working knowledge in R as a programming language including
familiarity in the following domains: tidyverse, data type handling,
data wrangling, data import, data management, modeling (e.g., linear
regression), and data visualization.

Course participants will need a computer or laptop with R
(<https://cran.r-project.org/>), RStudio, (<https://www.rstudio.com/>),
and the R Shiny package (<https://shiny.rstudio.com>) installed. The
programs and the package are free and open source.

## Time schedule

<iframe src="resources/schedule.html" width="100%" height="800px"></iframe>

## Literature

The course does not require any prior reading.

However, our schedule is primarily based on one textbook which we
generally recommend for further reading:

Wickham, Hadley (2020): Mastering Shiny: Build Interactive Apps,
Reports, and Dashboards Powered by R. Accessible online at:
<https://mastering-shiny.org/>.

Additional recommended literature: Fay, Colin, Rochette, Sébastien,
Guyader, Vincent, and Girard, Cervan (2022): Engineering
Production-Grade Shiny Apps. Accessible online at:
<https://engineering-shiny.org/>.

Granjon, David (2022). Outstanding User Interfaces With Shiny.
Accessible online at: <https://unleash-shiny.rinterface.com>
